---
layout: post
title: Short Story - Fabrica
---

I wake up on a cold, hard concrete floor. Disoriented and still half asleep, I get up and stare for what feels like miles through an empty room. Towering and thin metal beams – probably steel – form the skeletons of rows of plywood shelves, all of which are completely barren. The distinctly industrial smell reminds me of the large storerooms at IKEA, but unlike those retail shops there doesn’t seem to be an exit. Deciding it’s high time to try and find one, I start to wander around. On the concrete, my footsteps echo around the room with foreign reverberations that make my hairs stand on end. Ducking under the barely head-height shelves above, walking on the plywood produces less of a sound but a definite fear of it snapping beneath me, despite their design for holding heavy loads they seem clearly worn and likely out of use for years or decades, evidenced by the dust and deadwood that floats off them when disturbed. After walking for maybe half a minute, I begin to hear a distant, low mechanical churning under the sound of my steps. I search for the source of the noise and see a door, slightly ajar, a few hundred metres away. I rush towards it and at a point I choke on the thick dust from the shelves, from then on I ran around them rather than across. I reach the door, which I now see is some stainless metal. I peer through the slight gap between it and its frame.

With my hand on the edge of the door, I feel a warmth coming from the production line in the room, a word that feels too enclosed to accurately describe this space, in front of me. Machinery twists and turns and thumps and thrashes, brutal in efficiency and aesthetics. I step through the door towards it all and the warmth shifts quite abruptly to a blistering heat, such a stark difference to the chill of the storeroom that I almost faint as it comes over my body. Here I walk on the same concrete as before, but if a sound is made it is covered by the crashing of metal around me and the swift moving conveyors, pulling around and manufacturing nothing. The majority of the room is covered in some metal or materials we would not have had 200 years ago, offering it strange acoustics. The harsh harmonic tones of the machines don’t quite echo or ring, they moreso maintain for an uncomfortable while after their production. It seems that these eerie melodies are the only things this factory produces, and as I’m about to question the rigour of my sanity (or maybe my life itself) I see a man through a pinhole sized gap formed from the arms crossing and sprawling of this metal monster. I yell for his attention, but if he hears me he makes no indication of it.

Trudging through the room, bogged down mentally and physically by the sweltering heat, I see that the man I saw was not alone. There are a dozen or a score men here – the temperature makes it hard to count – all working on something, though I couldn’t tell you what and it seems they’re unwilling to. They all wear tattered baby blue dungaree uniforms and line up in threes alongside various conveyors, every few seconds synchronously reaching out their hands and making some motion through the air as though they’re wrapping something. The perfection in their movements seems so synthetic that I assume they must be spectral, either that or I’m in some strange purgatory. I manage to slip past their notice, despite deliberately trying to draw it towards myself. I jump in front of one man and flail my now clammy hands in front of his eyes. He stares straight through me. I hear the tracks behind me quietly stall, silent lest for a faint screech against the metal frame. The man goes to perform his inane task once more, and his ghostly arms pass straight through me as though nothing were different. Or so I had hoped, which makes it all the more painful when a surprisingly tight jab to the abdomen flings me lightly back, and I trip over onto the conveyor. The combination of the heat and the blow drain my energy and so, while conscious, I lay immobile as the conveyor starts up again.

The rubber conveyor bumps along like a caterpillar track, transporting me effortlessly along. Ahead, I see a large mechanical arm with a wide descending end, crushing into the conveyor before me. Too dazed to acknowledge my likely impending doom, I let the conveyor drag me towards the press. Above me I see a new set of hands, performing the same intricate motion as the ones that had flung me down here. The conveyor bounces along past this other man once they finish that strange task. Now there is nothing between me and the metal press, and I come to a start when I finally realise what’s about to happen, but naively assume once again that it can’t be real. And then the press crushes into me, and I feel a pressure come from above. I begin to fall. Convinced once again that I’ve met my end, I land cushioned by some nondescript boxes, the labels weathered off with age. I assume they held at one point what was produced in the factory, but if it were true any evidence of it has since been removed. I look up and around and I realise I’m in a cave, this allows me to register the returning chill. I decide to sit down before exploring this new strange place further, and give myself a chance to regain my breath. I craft a makeshift cradle out of one of the boxes, and crouch in it. I wait here, so I can process my thoughts without the outside world corrupting them.
